Part 2: Learners and Learning


Chapter 2: How Experts Differ from Novices

Very important:

- As implied in the previous chapter, what distinguishes experts from novices
  isn't necessarily factual knowledge (nor is it ability or intelligence), more
  as it is about better connections among concepts, and the ability to
  "conditionalize" knowledge.  This means being able to know what areas/concepts
  are needed for a specific task, rather than trying our everything.
  
- (Related) Experts have more fluent knowledge retrieval, so they better know
  what applies to specific tasks. This means their memory is not taxed trying to
  figure out what would apply. Organization is more efficient; novices may
  retrieve knowledge in a slow, sequential manner.

- Experts recognize (and are more sensitive to) meaningful patterns across many
  fields. Example: with chess, if you randomize the pieces, the experts don't
  really remember those locations any better than novices, but if the pieces are
  arranged as they might be in a real game situation, the expert can pick up
  patterns and remember the location of pieces far better than novices can. 
  
- Different styles of experts: "artisans" vs "virtuosos". The former are experts
  in one field but the latter are also experts and, moreover, have the desirable
  property of "active learning" so they are experts at learning about new
  things. This requires metacognition, as discussed in the first chapter.
  Educational programs need to be designed to encourage the development of
  virtuosos.

Also important:

- Cool example with physics: experts organize problems in a way that reflects
  deeper, fundamental ideas, whereas novices will organize problems if they look
  similar (e.g., have the same drawings of triangles).

- Being an expert at a subject is NOT the same as being an expert at teaching.
  An expert teacher will better understand when students might get stuck. Yeah,
  this is a widely agreed-upon fact.

Stuff I didn't remember:

:-)


Chapter 3: Learning and Transfer

Very important:

- You could argue that the ultimate goal of teaching is better transfer
  learning, or how to efficiently use the knowledge from school and apply it to
  the real world. Also, the goal is not to immediately know how to do new tasks,
  but simply to increase the _speed_ at which these new tasks will be learned.
  The early performance attempts is less important since anyone is going to need
  some time to learn new stuff, so don't evaluate based on the first time,
  evaluate based on the length of the learning period.

- All transfer learning (and learning itself, of course) starts from somewhere.
  Yeah, prior knowledge was emphasized in earlier chapters. Clearly, prior
  knowledge may help or hinder new learning. Examples: students incorrectly
  think that plants eat soil, that when they throw a ball in the air there is
  still "force from the hand pushing it" and so on.

- For better transfer learning, we need to see the same concept in different
  contexts, so that we can understand the "abstract stuff" that is shared across
  tasks. That's better than remembering task-specific details (or "overly
  contextualized" knowledge in their jargon) that don't generalize.

Also important:

- Learning depends a lot on social background and culture, in addition to more
  factual, easy-to-define prior knowledge. Some cultures may discourage asking
  questions, for instance, which means if teachers expect to see questions, they
  might think a student is uninterested. There was also some differences noted
  among white versus black families (but no biracials, Asians, etc ... sigh).

- Speed of learning depends on deliberate practice and feedback. :-)

Stuff I didn't remember:

- (A bit silly that I didn't record this, but oh well ...) All learning takes
  time. You simply can't be an expert without investing the time. And moving
  on to more advanced subjects without knowing the basics is not ideal.

- Oh, another obvious thing I didn't quite record: don't forget about
  motivation. What factors (social, etc.) motivate students? That's very
  important for speed of learning.

- Amount of transfer depends on overlap among concepts, well roughly speaking.
  Yeah, another generally obvious thing.


Chapter 4: How Children Learn

Very important:

- Even the very young (as in, months-old infants) exhibit signs of learning and
  knowledge, which contrasts with very early research claims. We have better
  tools for experimentation and to measure infants, since (for obvious reasons)
  it's not that easy to test on them.  TL;DR young children are active,
  competent agents.

- Children also pick up language and can quickly tell if stuff seems natural or
  unnatural. On a related note, parents need to read to their children, though
  some of this can be "picture" books.

- Zone of proximal development: the gap between current abilities, and the
  abilities one could have with extra teaching assistance. (Or more accurately,
  'potential' ... see the text for details.) It's the job of parents,
  caregivers, teachers, etc., to continue improving the students' skills so that
  this zone proceeds to the next natural stages.

Also important:

- Some cool stuff that infants know: they like to be consistent with numbers, so
  they see groups of twos, relax, but if the next group has three things, then
  they'll be more alert and think something's different. Also, physics: infants
  somehow are able to tell that things will fall over without supports, and pay
  more attention on that (in rigorous experiments).

- Children can naturally be interested in solving problems, it doesn't always
  have to be explicitly forced upon by a teacher. Also, lots of this depends on
  culture (again, this is obvious, but good to reiterate).

Stuff I didn't remember:

- "Privileged domains": physical and biological concepts, causality, number, and
  language. These are domains where infants show _positive_biases_ in learning,
  which makes sense from an evolutionary perspective.

- Precise experimental techniques for detecting infant cues and preferences:
  non-nutritive sucking, habituation (i.e., infant "gets used to it" and stops
  responding to that cue), and visual expectation.

- Infants can distinguish between animate and inanimate objects. Also, they're
  good at inferring from context.

- There's a little bit about memory here, might be more in later chapters, but
  mostly about the strategy of clustering to improve memory performance.  Also
  some discussion about how infants vs older children may have different memory
  strategies, and strategies get more effective with age (generally).


Chapter 5: Mind and Brain

Very important:

- The mind is made up of neurons, with synapses and stuff (not going to get too
  technical here but you get the idea).  These synaptic connections can be
  created and destroyed, and there's generally two ways things can happen: when
  they're created in huge swarms and then also removed in equal amounts, kind of
  like sculpting (youth) or continual creation through learning by experience
  (lifetime).

- Don't fall for some of the hype you see in popular claims. :-)

- Some discussion over difference between deaf and hearing ways of learning, the
  implication was that areas of the brain can be learned through experience.
  Also, learning organizes/restructures the brain.

Also important:

- Context matters. Different parts of the brain are ready to learn at different
  times. 

Stuff I didn't remember:

- Eh, hopefully got the main points.
