Part 1: 
    Introduction

Chapter 1: 
    Learning: From Speculation to Science


Very important:

- We need to stop teaching and testing based on factual knowledge, because the
  amount of facts to know is beyond what any one person can handle. The focus of
  teaching should be more on learning how to acquire and synthesize facts to
  "pick things up" quickly, so to speak.  That's not to say facts are
  unimportant. It's just that the bigger priority should be understanding the
  connections among the facts so that it is easier to transfer and generalize to
  novel scenarios.  Experts are very good at synthesizing, connecting, and
  efficiently organizing their reservoirs of knowledge.

- Students start with lots of prior knowledge and are not simply "empty vessels"
  of which teachers fill with knowledge. It's necessary to check with them if
  their prior knowledge is inhibiting or misleading them when learning about
  various concepts.  Classic scenario: fish is fish, where a fish asks an
  amphibian what land-based animals are like, but simply imagines them as fish
  with legs, fish with udders, etc. Another example: teaching students the Earth
  is round when they think it's flat.


Also important:

- There should be a focus on improving students' understanding of their own
  ability. They should be able to tell when they need help. The ability to
  predict one's performance on a task is called "metacognition" (see Chapters 2
  and 3).

- Don't do shallow coverage of every possible topic within reach, instead reduce
  the number of topics but go through a few in depth to practice deeper
  understanding.

- And a bunch of more mundane, practical stuff: need to change incentives of
  teaching and standardized tests so that it's not fact-based yet is still fair,
  need to do the same for adult teaching, etc.

- Don't just focus on the best talent, need to work for lots of students. Well,
  it is important to develop top students more than we do in the US, but it's
  also clear that we need to broaden the population who have access to quality
  education.


Stuff I forgot to record after a first pass:

- Don't ask which teaching technique is best because that's like asking which
  tool is best: it depends on the task and materials at hand.
