Part 3: Teachers and Teaching


Chapter 6: Design of Learning Environments

Very important:

- Use learning-centered (actually, "learner centered") environments, a bit
  unclear to define but I think mostly about better understanding of students'
  prior knowledge. Again, see previous chapters about this.

- Need some form of knowledge learning, so students need to learn something
  beyond just "learning how to learn". (Edit: not really the right way to define
  this but again not a clear definition, but mostly about how to make students
  knowledgeable, so that they can do effective transfer --- again, see previous
  chapters.)

- Students need feedback (see "deliberate practice"), but not just the kind that
  come with grades and tests. Also, feedback is most effective when students can
  revise their thinking on the _current_ subject matter, not when they get a
  test but by the time they have it, they've moved on to newer concepts.

- Must consider the community/culture aspect, which obviously affects learning.
  For instance, Anglo culture emphasizes talking and asking questions, but
  others might not (and this affects how teachers evaluate students). Also,
  seriously, when are we going to talk about multi-racials? Gaaaah, so
  disappointing.

Also important:

- A bunch of stuff on the merits of television (remember, this was 2000) but not
  really relevant for what I hope to get out of this book. Also a bunch of stuff
  on how to evaluate teachers for practical purposes.

Stuff I didn't remember:

- While some may say schools aren't working, the reality is that we're asking
  for way more out of students than in past eras. In the past, being literate
  could have simply meant being able to sign your name. Now we're getting to the
  point where we need students to interpret and compose potentially complicated
  written stuff.

- Eh, a relevant quote: "Learning theory does not provide a simple recipe for
  designing effective learning environments; similarly, physics constrains but
  does not dictate how to build a bridge."


Chapter 7: Effective Teaching Examples

Very important:

- History: focus not on facts but on analysis and understanding how to debate
  concepts. If you take students who know facts and historians who don't
  specialize in the same area, the students might actually do better on tests of
  factual knowledge, but won't be able to do any analysis. Effective teachers
  can promote debate, with careful monitoring of course. Interesting example:
  teacher asking students to put stuff in a time capsule, so they need to reason
  about important stuff.

- Math: less focus on computation, more focus on problem solving skills.
  Analogies can help, e.g., modeling floors of a building to learn about
  negative numbers (negative floors = below ground level). Oh, also model-based
  stuff, where we apply math to building models of stuff (e.g., buildings).
  Could also clearly apply to physics.

- Science: again, less on facts and more on analysis. Many students have
  intuition on stuff that's not correct in physics (e.g., forces and Newton's
  third law) so use live demos. Also recall earlier discussion about students
  not classifying problems correctly based on solution, but based on how they
  look (surface features). Students who are able to describe a problem
  "hierarchically" tend to do better --- though this is obviously vague.

Also important:

- Deliberate practice. Don't forget.

- Effective teachers must know the subject matter AND be able to tell where
  students are likely to run into roadblocks.

Stuff I didn't remember:

- Practical stuff about instruction in large classes.


Chapter 8: Teacher Learning
(Not the most relevant chapter for me)

There's a huge difference between education theory and practice, leads to
teachers rejecting (or not really diving into) research, lots of turnover,
susceptible to local politics, etc. It's best to have workshops and other
meet-ups where teachers can practice and discuss teaching techniques, etc.


Chapter 9: Technology to Support Learning
(Not the most relevant chapter for me)

Well this is kind of out of date, I suppose. Mostly, technology has tradeoffs
but can be used to bring in new contexts/demos to the class, etc. Particularly
useful if it can help provide repeated feedback (remember deliberate practice).
